here at dnews we're obsessed
with Mars and we kind of think
you are - we kind of think
everyone is
ever since the Romans named the
planet after their God of War
it's been used in fantastical
tales in literature radio TV and
film
Gulliver traveled there men are
supposedly from there and the
term Martian is inspired by the
planets name
so why are we so obsessed well
maybe Neil deGrasse Tyson said
it best
so much of what drives cosmic
exploration involves the quest
to learn whether or not we're
alone in the universe
and though there have been some
significant advances in the race
to Mars as of today we really
only have some pictures of the
planet and a limited amount of
data from rock samples so some
could say we really haven't
gotten that far but i'm already
getting ahead of myself
let's rewind back in the sixties
there was a good handful of
attempts to see mark
now I say attempts because they
pretty much all failed until
marijuana for in 1965 the
spacecraft spent just 25 minutes
flying by Mars but in that time
it took 21 pictures like this
one for the next 20 years there
were more missions to Mars and
thousands of more pictures but
also a significant number of
failures
expensive
after losing communication with
the Mars Observer in 1993 a
spacecraft costing an estimated
eight hundred and thirteen
million dollars
NASA decided enough was enough
in NASA's own words
we've tried to do too much too
fast we have lost sight of how
difficult space exploration is
we've had too many mission
failures which must be fixed and
that fix turned out to be
something called FBC which
doesn't really need any complex
scientific explanation
it's simple faster better
cheaper and with that kind of
mentality
NASA developed a method called
aerobraking we're using the
friction of another planet
atmosphere to control a
spacecraft's orbit which is
saved lots of money and fuel
aerobraking is used with the
more recent Mars Odyssey and
reconnaissance orbiter which has
played a big part in learning
about the existence of water on
Mars
since then the rover curiosity
has been our primary source for
collecting data on the
mysterious red planet
curiosity is using some pretty
cool tools to test rock samples
which actually tells us quite a
lot
for example the curious he can
cook Martian rock up to 1,800
degrees Fahrenheit
depending on what temperature
the sample breaks down we can
determine what compound exist in
Mars surface
yeah
while curiosity is still
chugging along on Mars here on
earth NASA is planning a new
mission called insight a landed
designed to study the interior
structure of Mars of course it
really wouldn't be a race
without competitive big players
like China are hoping to send a
rover to mars and Russia is
looking to send trained monkeys
there but there are also smaller
organizations in the running
like nonprofit inspiration Mars
who are working to send a
middle-aged couple to fly by the
red planet or alone must
organization space X who helped
to pioneer round-trip to Mars
via reusable spacecraft and then
there's the highly controversial
Mars one which is big plans to
establish a permanent human
settlement but this race is a
costly one
not just in terms of the
billions of dollars that these
projects need to get off the
ground but also the time and
manpower that is required
perhaps those involved in the
race to Mars can work faster
better and cheaper through
collaboration may be the key to
finally finding Martians is
doing a better job of working
together as Earthlings
so we get to talk about stories
of space exploration because of
our sponsor toyota they want to
get the word out about their new
toyota rav4 hybrid the all-new
Toyota rav4 hybrid lets your
sense of wonder lead the way and
drive your passions further
how far will you take the all
new rav4 hybrid
and masses Reconnaissance
Orbiter recently found strong
evidence that suggests liquid
water flows on Mars want to know
more check out this video
without watermark
there's water on Bob ah thanks
for watching and don't forget to
subscribe